Not only was I able in
record time to create
an application that is
pulling from a mock REST API.
I was able to create a second application
that's also pulling from the same mock
REST API that are sharing the same code
and now they're sharing the same toolbar.
And so just use your imagination,
this is like pretend castle
in the living room but
these concepts you can use to build up and
extend onto this.
Because kind of what I'm showing is this
is how you build a house with Legos but
all the techniques, all the concepts,
they still apply it scale.
So with that said, does anybody have any
questions about what I've covered in terms
of sharing a common UI
component across two
applications within a mono-repo.
>> I have a question regarding libs.
>> Mm-hm.
>> Well, the shared libs.
I was just wondering could for example
a lib be just TypeScript for I don't know,
like project provided it follows
the angular package notation or
should it just be straight like
what we're working with right now?
>> So the question is, does a lib have
to be or can it be just a regular
TypeScript implementation as long
as it follows the proper kind
of angular notation to kind of
inject it into the workspace?
Or do we need to stay within kind
of the confines of angular if
I understood correctly, was that right?
And the answer is it really
could be a lot of things, so
I think it would definitely
have to be TypeScript.
But you can absolutely use a straight
vanilla TypeScript lib and import it in.
And so now this raises some really
interesting opportunities in terms of,
How much of your Angular
app is actually Angular?
How much of your React
app is actually React?
And how much of it is
just regular TypeScript?
And so
I don't consider myself a react expert,
this is why I attend front end
masters on a regular basis.
But in terms of Angular, that a lot of
what I do in Angular, and all my favorite
parts of Angular are not really Angular
at all, it's just basic TypeScript.
In so much that I can extract
all these patterns out and
use them really across the board
in a lot of different places.
And so all of a sudden now you
have the ability to start to share
some of that functionality
not only across projects but
across projects that are built
on different frameworks.
And then you start to add in like
micro friend and frameworks and
federated modules, and
we are living in the future.
And so just to kind of challenge
everybody to put their thinking cap on.
Stop for a second and just think about
where we think the web is going.
And the web is not going in
a direction that you're gonna have
a single dominant framework.
Or you're going to have a single dominant
technology other than I would say kind of
TypeScript being the bytecode of the web.
But as a whole,
that what you are going to see, and
I believe that a lot of people
are philosophically aligned with this,
is you're going to see functionality
take the forefront and
you're going to see frameworks start
to kind of step into the background.
And I don't know if you remember three,
maybe five years ago the rhetoric
in the dialogue around frameworks
was who's gonna be the best?
And you would see these articles,
Angular and React,
there's gonna be blood in the streets.
And it's just that is just not helpful,
because it doesn't
really help the end users, and
so it is a larger extension.
When you start to think about the future
and where we're going is I really
want to challenge everybody to think
about complexity that we see at
the framework level,
starting to just fade into the background.
And I really believe you're going
to start seeing applications that
are really built with React Angular
view and they're all coexisting,
totally fine, because under
the hood it's just JavaScript.
And so in a framework level,
in a mono-repo level and
I think really in an enterprise
level that's the future.
So super awesome question.
>> How would you adopt web workers or
service workers into
the whole space architecture?
>> So the question is how
would I adopt service workers
into the architecture
that I'm proposing here?
Is that correct?
>> Yep.
>> And so my answer is that, You
do it by extracting
that functionality out.
I mean, that's almost in a way
web workers and service workers,
they exist to extract and kind of
run certain threads in parallel and
do parallel processing and
a lot of offline stuff.
And so as with anything
that what you wanna do is,
can I isolate or extract this out so
that it's portable?
Do I have service worker
functionality that I can pick up and
can I plug it into multiple applications?
And could I possibly
even publish it as an NPM
package that could be
used in any application?
And so in terms of the specific
implementation details,
it really depends on what you're building.
But I would implement service workers
just like I would implement Firebase or
Socket.IO or anything else is
that I would extract that out.
And so for instance,
if I was going to implement GraphQL,
which would be a really cool fun idea,
is that I would build a lib that
would encapsulate that functionality so
then it's portable.
Does that make sense?
>> Yep.
>> Can I create an Ionic application and
use this structure?
>> So the question is,
can you use Ionic within a mono-repo,
specifically an NX mono-repo?
And the answer is absolutely there are a
few fiery hoops you have to jump through.
It's not too bad,
they're really good articles on
the Internet about how to do this.
And I went on a rant one
day to Adam Bradley,
who is one of the co-founders of Ionic.
And he was like, that's really funny
because we actually just hired
a person and they're entire
job is really to integrate and
basically make a lot of the Ionic
ecosystem available within NX.
And so the answer is yes,
they're working on it.
And recently I did this and
what happened is I had an entire
Ionic application,
which consisted of nothing more than
a bunch of Ionic components
that were 30 lines or less.
Now think about that, because I
already had my kind of admin portal
thing where I could create read,
update, delete.
And really mobile devices are primarily
for consumption for reading,
you don't do a lot of heavy form lifting.
You can but in terms of I just want to
see what football games are playing or
whatever, I just need to pass information.
I was able to spin up an Ionic
application in NX and
my components were again 30 lines or
less and
I was done in half a day because 80% of
the work if not more was already done.
So super good question and
definitely do that, it works really well.
So the question is if
you have an application,
where would you recommend that
your business logic goes?
And the short answer is,
you want to abstract that into a lib,
typically, if you're using NgRx,
which I recommend,
there's other state management
libraries I think they're all okay.
I like NgRx is that your
business logic will typically,
depending on the nature, will either
go into a utility service and lib or
if it's asynchronous, I need to send
an email, I put those into effects.
Because it needs to do something, and then
based on that side effect if you will,
then it needs to store that
result back into state.
So that is I'm assuming some
little prior knowledge to NgRx.
I can elaborate on this kind of further,
but I would say NgRx effects
is probably the primary place for
business logic to go into exist,
because that's where you ultimately handle
the control flow of your application.
>> Then next one is, when you begin
to see multiple UI components and
libraries, would you continue
to keep them separate or
would you group them together,
creating a higher level library?
>> So the answer is if I started to
see multiple kind of UI libs I'm
presuming kind of single purpose
one off UI libs that they exist.
What I consider consolidating those into
maybe a single more general larger lib,
and the answer is I
certainly would consider it.
I think you can abstract things out so
much that the overhead to manage
that is you no longer see a payoff.
And I would rather see the one lib with 10
really good components versus
10 libs of one component and
especially if I'm going to
be using those together.
Now I understand why the Angular
material team has broken
all of their libs out
into standalone modules.
The reason being is that they're very,
very aggressive about allowing you
to only use what you want to use.
But the trade off is that now we
have to go create an Angular or
a material module and
put all of that in there, and so
there is a trade off there for that.
But I would certainly consider
it when you evaluate,
the overhead of having to
parse through these libs
is higher than having
them in a single place.
So the answer is maybe, it depends,
but I would at least think about it.